Create a docker image using docker build --tag hello
Test them
run the docker image as container
ducker run --publish
start the container


container:
 docker is a tool to create,deploy and run containers.

docker engine:(client server tech)
docker cli
docker deman
rest api


docker image->runcontainer


docker registery

client->dokerhost->dockerregistery


toincrease nodes:
docker - service scale 


Docker: is an open-source lightweight containerization technology. It has gained widespread popularity in the cloud and application packaging world. It allows you to automate the deployment of applications in lightweight and portable containers.

    Offers an efficient and easy initial set up
    Allows you to describe your application lifecycle in detail
    Simple configuration and interacts with Docker Compose.
    Documentation provides every bit of information.

features of docker:
    Easy Modeling
    Version control
    Placement/Affinity
    Application Agility
    Developer Productivity
    Operational Efficiencies

What are the three components of Docker Architecture ?

    Client:Docker provides Command Line Interface tools to the client to interact with Docker daemon.

    Docker-Host:It contains container, images, and Docker daemon. It offers a complete environment to execute and run your application.

    Registry:Docker's public registry is called Docker hub, which allows you to store images privately. In Docker hub, you can store millions of images.Public Registry, Private Registry


what is a docker image:
The Docker image help to create Docker containers. You can create the Docker image with the build command. Due to this, it creates a container that starts when it begins to run. Every docker images are stored in the Docker registry. 

What is Docker Engine?
Docker daemon or Docker engine represents the server. The docker daemon and the clients should be run on the same or remote host, which can communicate through command-line client binary and full RESTful API. 

command:
docker ps
sudo docker stop container name

run image as container:
sudo docker run -i -t alpine /bin/bash

The common instruction in Dockerfile are: FROM, LABEL, RUN, and CMD

What is memory-swap flag?
Memory-swap is a modified flag that only has meaning if- memory is also set. Swap allows the container to write express memory requirements to disk when the container has exhausted all the RAM which is available to it. 

Docker states and Docker Events are used to monitoring docker in the production environment. 

What the states of Docker container?
Important states of Docker container are:
    Running
    Paused
    Restarting
    Exited

What is Docker hub?
Docker hub is a cloud-based registry that which helps you to link to code repositories. It allows you to build, test, store your image in Docker cloud. You can also deploy the image to your host with the help of Docker hub.

What is Virtualization?
Virtualization is a method of logically dividing mainframes to allow multiple applications to run simultaneously.
However, this scenario changed when companies and open source communities were able to offer a method of handling privileged instructions. It allows multiple OS to run simultaneously on a single x86 based system. 

What is Hypervisor?
The hypervisor allows you to create a virtual environment in which the guest virtual machines operate. It controls the guest systems and checks if the resources are allocated to the guests as necessary. 

Explain Docker object labels
Docker object labels is a method for applying metadata to docker objects including, images, containers, volumes, network, swam nodes, and services.


How does communication happen between Docker client and Docker Daemon?
You can communicate between Docker client and Docker Daemon with the combination of Rest API, socket.IO, and TCP.  

Explain Implementation method of Continuous Integration(CI) and Continues Development (CD) in Docker?
    Runs Jenkins on docker
    You can run integration tests in Jenkins using docker-compose

Explain the process of scaling your Docker containers?
The Docker containers can be scaled to any level starting from a few hundred to even thousands or millions of containers. The only condition for this is that the containers need the memory and the OS at all times, and there should not be a constraint when the Docker is getting scaled.


What are Docker Namespaces?
The Namespace in Docker is a technique which offers isolated workspaces called the Container. Namespaces also offer a layer of isolation for the Docker containers. 

How do I run multiple copies of Compose file on the same host?
Compose uses the project name which allows you to create unique identifiers for all of a project's containers and other resources. To run multiple copies of a project, set a custom project name using the -a command-line option or using COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME environment variable. 







 






