JavaApplication->persisent Object->hibernate[hibernate.properties,xmlmapping]->database.


hibernate:[configuration,sessionfactory,session,transaction,query and creteria]->JTA,JDBC,JNDI -> database

Configuration Object:
The Configuration object is the first Hibernate object you create in any Hibernate application. It is usually created only once during application initialization. It represents a configuration or properties file required by the Hibernate.



    Database Connection − This is handled through one or more configuration files supported by Hibernate. These files are hibernate.properties and hibernate.cfg.xml.

    Class Mapping Setup − This component creates the connection between the Java classes and database tables.


SessionFactory Object:
Configuration object is used to create a SessionFactory object which in turn configures Hibernate for the application using the supplied configuration file and allows for a Session object to be instantiated. The SessionFactory is a thread safe object and used by all the threads of an application.

The SessionFactory is a heavyweight object; it is usually created during application start up and kept for later use. You would need one SessionFactory object per database using a separate configuration file. So, if you are using multiple databases, then you would have to create multiple SessionFactory objects.

Session Object:
A Session is used to get a physical connection with a database. The Session object is lightweight and designed to be instantiated each time an interaction is needed with the database. Persistent objects are saved and retrieved through a Session object.

Transaction Object:
A Transaction represents a unit of work with the database and most of the RDBMS supports transaction functionality. Transactions in Hibernate are handled by an underlying transaction manager and transaction (from JDBC or JTA).

This is an optional object and Hibernate applications may choose not to use this interface, instead managing transactions in their own application code.

Query Object:
Query objects use SQL or Hibernate Query Language (HQL) string to retrieve data from the database and create objects. A Query instance is used to bind query parameters, limit the number of results returned by the query, and finally to execute the query.

criteria object:
Criteria objects are used to create and execute object oriented criteria queries to retrieve objects.

