What are linear and non linear data Structures?

    Linear: A data structure is said to be linear if its elements form a sequence or a linear list. Examples: Array. Linked List, Stacks and Queues
    Non-Linear: A data structure is said to be non-linear if traversal of nodes is nonlinear in nature. Example: Graph and Trees.


    Insertion ? Add a new data item in the given collection of data items.
    Deletion ? Delete an existing data item from the given collection of data items.
    Traversal ? Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
    Searching ? Find out the location of the data item if it exists in the given collection of data items.
    Sorting ? Arranging the data items in some order i.e. in ascending or descending order in case of numerical data and in dictionary order in case of alphanumeric data.


How is an Array different from Linked List?

    The size of the arrays is fixed, Linked Lists are Dynamic in size.
    Inserting and deleting a new element in an array of elements is expensive, Whereas both insertion and deletion can easily be done in Linked Lists.
    Random access is not allowed in Linked Listed.
    Extra memory space for a pointer is required with each element of the Linked list.
    Arrays have better cache locality that can make a pretty big difference in performance.

What is Stack and where it can be used?

Stack is a linear data structure which the order LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out) for accessing elements. Basic operations of stack are : Push, Pop , Peek

Applications of Stack:

    Infix to Postfix Conversion using Stack
    Evaluation of Postfix Expression
    Reverse a String using Stack
    Implement two stacks in an array
    Check for balanced parentheses in an expression

What is a Queue, how it is different from stack and how is it implemented?

Queue is a linear structure which follows the order is First In First Out (FIFO) to access elements. Mainly the following are basic operations on queue: Enqueue, Dequeue, Front, Rear
The difference between stacks and queues is in removing. In a stack we remove the item the most recently added; in a queue, we remove the item the least recently added. Both Queues and Stacks can be implemented using Arrays and Linked Lists.


What is a Linked List and What are its types?

A linked list is a linear data structure (like arrays) where each element is a separate object. Each element (that is node) of a list is comprising of two items – the data and a reference to the next node.Types of Linked List :

    Singly Linked List : In this type of linked list, every node stores address or reference of next node in list and the last node has next address or reference as NULL. For example 1->2->3->4->NULL
    Doubly Linked List : Here, here are two references associated with each node, One of the reference points to the next node and one to the previous node. Eg. NULL<-1<->2<->3->NULL
    Circular Linked List : Circular linked list is a linked list where all nodes are connected to form a circle. There is no NULL at the end. A circular linked list can be a singly circular linked list or doubly circular linked list. Eg. 1->2->3->1 [The next pointer of last node is pointing to the first]


